Landing page Text

Summary: Latitude vs. X

The purpose of this project is to analyze how weather changes as you get closer
to the equator. To acomplish this analysis, we first pulled data from the OpenWeatherMap API
to assemble a dataset on over 500 cities.

After assembling the dataset, we used Matplotlib to plot various aspects of the weather vs. latitude.
Factors we looked at included: Temperature, Cloudiness, Wind Speed, and Humidity.
This site also provides the source data and visualizations created as part of the analysis,
as well as explanations and descriptions of any trends and correlations witnessed.


Comparison page Text

Comparison: Latitude vs X

Click any plot to get an in-depth analysis

vs. Max Temperature

As expected, the weather becomes significantly warmer as one approaches the equator ( 0 Degree Latitude).
More interestingly, however, is the fact that the southern hemisphere tends to be warmer this
time of year than the northern hemisphere. This may be due to the tilt of the Earth at the time 
of the year this data was gathered.

vs. Cloudiness
The data points presented are almost in uniform where most of the plots are inline with the x-axis and are congregated 
on both the top and bottom of the scatter plot. We can observed that the city latitude
are not affected greatly by it's latitude on Earth. Hence, a Weak relationship is observed with latitudes and cloudiness.

vs. Wind Speed
On the Latitude vs. Wind Speed graph, data points are gravitated below 15 MPH on most Latitude degrees.
It seems that a city's latitude does not greatly affect the the wind speed of a city. Most are breezy and comfortable
below 15 MPH with some extremes are observed passed Latitude - 40 with wind speeds above 25 MPH. Caution to these cities
when organising kite flying competition as there would be many kites being blown away by the strong breeze.

vs. Humidity
From the observation, Latitude have little to no influence over the humidity of countries in both northern
and southern hemisphere. Most of the cities tend to crowd towards a higher humidity percentage regardless
of it's coordinates. There are rare cases where some cities have 0% humidity which would be perfect for those with allergies.

Data page Text

The following table inlcudes all of the data used for plotting during this project.


